Subject	Waste Management and Disposal
Specific subject area	Social attitudes towards new sanitation systems and recycling of human urine as crop fertiliser.
Type of data	Excel file
	Table
	Text (survey instruments, codebook)
How data were acquired	GoogleForms (all countries except mainland China)
	Wenjuanxing market research platform (mainland China)
Data format	Raw
	Cleaned/processed
Parameters for data collection	Surveys were administered to university community members from
	20 universities in 16 different countries. Only fully completed surveys were retained, along with a count of individuals who explicitly refused consent after reading the introduction. All respondents were anonymous and gave informed consent for their answers to be used for research. Ethics approval was obtained as required.
Description of data collection	"Survey administrators sent invitations by email and followed up with reminders on days 7, 14, 21 and 28, closing each survey after 30 days; in a few cases, the survey link was kept open longer due to low initial response rates. Data were cleaned, translated into English where necessary, coded, filtered, and analysed using Excel and R software. Urine recycling perception scores and mean revised New Ecological Paradigm scores were calculated from other item responses."
Data source location	Bangladesh Agricultural University, Bangladesh
	Bangladesh University of Health Sciences, Bangladesh
	University of Santa Catarina, Brazil
	University of Science and Technology Beijing, China
	Tongji University, China
	Samara University, Ethiopia
	AgroParisTech, France
	University of the Aegean, Greece
	Tezpur University, India
	Oranim College, Israel
	University of Haifa, Israel
	The Hashemite University, Jordan
	Universiti Malaysia Terengganu, Malaysia
	University of Academy of Sciences of Moldova, Moldova
	University of Life Sciences in Lublin, Poland
	IADE – Universidade Europeia, Portugal
	National Taiwan University (Department of Bioenvironmental Systems Engineering), Taiwan
	National Taipei University of Technology, Taiwan
	Makerere University, Uganda
	University of South Florida, Florida, USA
Data accessibility	Repository name: Mendeley Data
	Data identification number: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/kccc8m9pn9.1
	Direct URL to data: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/kccc8m9pn9.1
Related research article	Simha et al., “Willingness among food consumers at universities to recycle human urine as crop fertiliser: Evidence from a multinational survey,” Sci. Tot. Environ. 765 (2021) 144,438. 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.144438.
Categories	Public Opinion
	Nutrient
	Fertilizer
	Survey
	Sustainable Agriculture
	Recycling
	Ecological Sanitation 
Contributors	Prithvi Simha and Björn Vinnerås with the help of all authors: Conceptualisation
	 Prithvi Simha and Melissa A. Barton: Data curation
	 Björn Vinnerås: Funding acquisition
	 All authors: Investigation
	 Prithvi Simha and Björn Vinnerås: Methodology
	 Prithvi Simha and Björn Vinnerås: Project administration
	 Prithvi Simha and Björn Vinnerås: Supervision
	 Melissa A. Barton and Prithvi Simha: Validation
	 Melissa A. Barton: Writing—original draft
	 All authors: Writing—review & editing.
